.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
.. Copyright 2022 Martin Schröder <info@swedishembedded.com>
   Consulting: https://swedishembedded.com/go
   Training: https://swedishembedded.com/tag/training

Version 0.33.0 (22-Aug-2022)
############################

- Control Systems Toolbox: Motion profile generation support. This adds motion
  profile generation support such that you can now solve for position, velocity
  and acceleration setpoints based on a planned motion profile. Useful for
  position and velocity control.
- Control Systems Toolbox: Add ability to build a standalone library. The
  toolbox now supports being built as a standalone library. A debian package is
  also generated.
- Control Systems Toolbox: Added to the SDK. The SDK now has a control systems
  toolbox that makes it possible to design controllers for dynamic systems and
  run these controllers on embedded hardware. The toolbox is implemented in GNU
  octave for the controller design part and in plain C for embedded hardware -
  making it possible to design complex control algorithms for embedded systems.
- Swedish Embedded Platform SDK: Add custom device interrupt example. The native
  bridge now supports socket based devices and these also support interrupts.
  The new example shows how to raise interrupt requests from standalone
  processes that simulate peripherals and communicate with the emulation over a
  TCP socket.
- Swedish Embedded Platform SDK: Add code generation to control systems demo.
  The control system toolbox adds possibility to design controllers using gnu
  octave. This example shows how to design a controller and generate C include
  file from the code in the .m file. This allows designing controller in octave
  and then exporting it to C.
- Swedish Embedded Platform SDK: Control library integration. The control
  systems toolbox has been added as a west subproject.
- Swedish Embedded Platform SDK: Disable issue number requirement. There is no
  longer a requirement to have issue number in the merge request title. This
  ensures that github issue numbers do not get in the way of gitlab issue
  numbers. If the same issue numbers are used in the title it easily becomes
  misleading since issue numbers from gitlab start linking to issue numbers from
  gitlab.
